[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: Now you guys are gonna be
learning about a new function called zip.
So I'm gonna turn it back over to
you to go through the exercises.
And we'll learn about,
this is the last function that
you guys are gonna be learning, and
then the rest of this is all drills.
It's not hard to learn these
functions individually.
The hard part is,
how do you take a big problem and
break it down into combinations
of these functions?
And that's the real thing that
we're gonna be drilling today.
So we're gonna break and we're gonna come
back to this in say 15 minutes, maybe.
What time is it now?
>> Speaker 2: 3:45.
>> Jafar: Yeah, okay.
It's 15 minutes, so
let's try and go to exercise 24.
Every now and then, information
isn't just organized into trees, but
it's correlated based on
its position in an array.
Rarely, but every now and then.
So I might have an array of videos,
as I do in this example, and
an array of bookmarks.
And the only way to link them up and
put them together is positionally.
So we see that the first bookmark
is correlated to the first video,
and the second bookmark is correlated to
the second video and on and on and on.
Excuse me, second bookmark,
second video, and so on and so forth.
Sometimes we wanna put
those two things together.
We wanna collect a little information.
It's almost as if we have an array on the
left-hand side, an array on the right-hand
side, and we wanna kind of merge each
item in the array like teeth in a zipper.
So the first time I ever read the zip
method, I was very confused, and
I was very angry.
I was like,
what the hell does this method do?
Why are these academics naming
these methods so strangely?
And then when I learned what zip does,
it actually makes a lot of sense.
So I got an array on the left-hand side,
an array on the right-hand side, and
the only way you can zip up a zipper,
right,
is if you've got a tooth on both end.
Anybody ever break a zipper
on a jacket before?
Really frustrating,
you're like [SOUND], it won't go up.
Because a tooth is missing or
bent on one side.
That's the way zip works.
So it will go and slurp up items,
one from each side of the array
until one of the array stops,
and then it won't go any further.
So notice here, I very deliberately
have four videos and three bookmarks.
So what we're going to do
in this particular example,
is we're gonna loop through.
We're gonna use a loop.
And we are going to loop only to
the length of the shortest array.
So notice I'm using math.min here,
to say we're only gonna go as long as
whichever videos or bookmarks length.
And so I'm gonna create an object.
>> Jafar: And
I'm just going to grab both the id
of the video and the bookmark.
So we can go through the videos
on the left-hand side here,
counter.id.
>> Jafar: And
I'm gonna go bookmarkId using
the bookmarks in the same.
Yeah, thank you.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar: Thank you.
Where, here?
So bookmark,
let's split this up over a few lines here.
>> Jafar: BookmarkId and we've collected
up a pair of the videoId and
the bookmarkId.
And if we run this, we get bookmarks not
defined, and that's because it isn't.
I have to look it up in
bookmarks at counter, great.
So that works.
So we're just looping through the array,
and we just look at that index on both
sides, so on the video side and
on the bookmark side,
we pull out a property.
>> Jafar: Now this is actually
common enough, this pattern that it makes
sense to abstract it into a function.
So we can take this process of a single
counter and looking up what that item in
the position on one array and that item in
the same position in another array, and
it's basically gluing them
together to create one item.
And we can abstract that into a zip
function, which we're just gonna add not
to an instance of an array but
to the array type itself.
So you call it like a static function of
anybody in the room is familiar with that.
You just go array.zip.
You don't go an instance of an array 1,
2, 3.zip.
And the reason for
that is that we wanna make it clear that
these two arrays are kind of peers, right.
It's not like where you go,
they're basically both being
processed at the same time.
We wanna make it visually
clear that that's happening.
So I'm gonna take the exact same code.
Except instead of this time doing
something specific where I'm taking
the idea out of the left-hand side and
the idea out of the right-hand side,
I'm gonna do something generic.
I'm gonna use the combiner function
passed in to the zip function.
>> Jafar: And I'm going to pass it,
the item on the right, or
the item on the left, excuse me.
So we take left at counter,
and the item on the right.
And now people can pass in
their own combiner function,
which decides what to do with
the item on the left-hand side and
on the right-hand side, and
we've generalized this operation now.
So when people call zip, they just
specialize what zip does by passing in
that function that's responsible for
combining the item on the left
with the item on the right.
And so if we run that,
we should have zip, great.
So now it solved the same problem
we just saw with that loop and
that counter using zip.
So I'm gonna zip the videos, and I'm gonna
zip, so that's the array on the left-hand
side, and I'm gonna zip bookmarks,
the array on the right-hand side.
And I'm gonna pass in a collection
that takes both a video and
a bookmark, and I'm gonna return
the videoId and the bookmarkId.
I think that's a good deal less code, and
I actually find it once you start to learn
to recognize these functions,
you'll find it much more readable.
The thing about a loop, is that look,
we're all very comfortable with loops,
right?
We know how to use those,
we've been using loops for years.
So at first,
it can seem very difficult to learn
to use all these different functions.
But once you learn these functions and
there aren't many, right,
we've covered five or six today.
What you're gonna find is your code
becomes much more self-descriptive.
When I look at a loop,
I have no idea what that loop is doing,
it could be aggregating data,
it could be transforming data,
it could be filtering data I have no idea.
When I look at a map function, I suddenly
have a very good idea from a high level
about what type of operation is
being performed on that collection.
And so if you learn to use
these functions, right,
which are specialized
collection operations,
your code suddenly becomes much more
self-descriptive, much less opaque.
You don't have to pay
too close attention and
read carefully to understand at
a high level what's going on.
So it's really important to
master these functions, and
then master being able to
combine them together.
Cuz not only will it allow you
to do very powerful things,
which will get you with
the async programming stuff,
it will make your code much more
self-descriptive and readable.
And in the end,
you end up writing less code, right?
The wonderful thing about this is
it takes those common operations of
looping over a collection and
adding stuff to an accumulator, and
it makes it somebody else's problem,
right?
That's what you do whenever
you create a function.
You make that work
somebody else's problem.
And so now you can just specialize
the little pieces of the operation you
need to do.
There are so many different ways,
it turns out, to process a collection.
And a lot of the things that we do that we
think are whole new problems are actually
just specializations
of an overall pattern.
Map, filter, reduce, merge,
and concatAll and zip.
So let's see if this runs.
Nice, right,
now we're writing some short code.
Code's getting real nice and brief.